General:

    The paper reads like a rough draft.  In my opinion this paper needs a lot
    of work and is not a few weeks from submission.

    Why was the analysis done in angular space rather than physical space.  My
    intuition is this would be more sensitive and easier to interpret; there
    is a variance of 15% in the angular scale between the lower edge z=0.25
    and the outer edge z=0.3 for the last redshift bin; this propagates
    into variance in your answer at some level.

    You should not be using any information from Sheldon et al. 2001.  It does
    not apply to this catalog.  The catalog is most closely related to
    Sheldon et al. 2004

    I should not be an author on the paper, I only gave you catalogs.  An
    acknowledgement is more than enough.

Abstract:

    It isn't clear what is meant by "Our results are qualitatively the same..."
    I think you might say the results are similar if we fit a SIS

Intro

    P5  The last sentence is a little confusing:  Strongest for reddest
    galaxies, do you mean reddest BCGs or reddest satellites?

    P7 last sentence, her->here.  Also probably "They considered lensing" is
    better.

    P8 "In fact..."  Might say this was studied previously or something to that
    effect.
    
    P9 Its also useful to know what you assume for Hubble

2.1

    P2  First sentence is awkward.  "In order to define an isolated sample of
    clusters, we removed clusters found to be close...etc....More details can
    be found in section ...."

    P3 The background galaxy catalogue was selected in the same manner as
    Sheldon 2004 not 2001 but is larger in area.  What do you mean by "Cluster
    members are not included in the shear catalog?"  I made no such cut.
    
    Can you remind me which catalog I sent you so I can send a proper 
    description?

2.2

    This whole section needs to be restructured and simplified.  For example,
    there is a lot of redundancy, both with previous sections and within the
    section.  More care should be taken to make the sentence structure clear
    and simple.

    P1 The first paragraph is worded in a confusing way; you should be clear
    that by "close" you mean in the projected separation.  Better would be "In
    order to avoid contamination of the signal from neighboring structures, we
    only measure the shear at relatively small projected separations" or
    something like that.  

    P2 The shear signal is not weighted by cluster mass.  The most important
    factor for weighting is the number of background galaxies per cluster, so
    the weighting is primarily a redshift weighting.  Within one of your
    redshift bins it is weighted by the number of clusters at each mass, but
    otherwise unweighted.

    You already explained that you would bin by richness, no need to repeat
    the argument here.  I would remove everything about mass weighting and
    ngals and just say "the mean of our sample is X so we take the panel X
    from Johnston et al as an estimate of the relative contribution from
    the cluster and neighboring structures".  

    Last sentence: Be more explicit what you are talking about instead of "blue
    line".  Also, you haven't addressed the removal of close neighbors yet, but
    you refer to it as if it preceded.

    P3  By a "numerical study" do you mean a simulation?  

    Because "lensing measures the projected mass" it doesn't matter if you
    have photometric or spectroscopic redshifts, the contamination is the
    same to the shear.

2.3

    P1 Is this true?  Ben uses the location of the BCG for the center, have you
    re-centered on the cluster member centroid?  If so this is important and
    should be explained in detail.

    P3 Now you say you use the BCG as the center.

    This definition of ellipticity is new to me.  For example, in lensing the
    denominator is chosen to be Qxx+Qyy.  Why was this definition chosen?

    P5  Again you say the cluster members are not included: did you remove
    them?  
    
    "..about 50%...were identified" How was this quantified?  When you say
    "Correctly categorized" you imply that many of the cluster members were
    missed in some way, but probably the "missed" galaxies are just fainter
    than Ben's absolute magnitude cut and outside r200; this statement should
    be corrected.

    P9 There is no need to talk about equation 11 since you take the ratio
    of shear in quadrants anyway.

    P10 We cannot "recall" the predictions from section 3 it comes later
    in the paper.

    P12  The catalogs contain the covariance term between the two components
    of shear.

    P13  The shape noise cannot be estimated in that way.  The shape noise
    in ellipticity space is about 0.32, and 0.16 in shear space. 

    P14  This is a poor method for calculating the errors.  Why not do 
    error propagation?  

    This is the first you have mentioned of a cut on the background
    source catalog.  This should be explained in detail in section 2.1

Equation 16 and paragraph after

    Don't forget that the integral in the denominator *does* start at z=0
    
    You should not use the Sheldon et al. 2004 distributions.  I don't
    understand why any background redshift information is being used at all.
    Isn't this unnecessary for measuring ellipticity?

3.3

    This correction must be calculated from a proper correlation function
    analysis.  From the text it appears this has not been done correctly.  Your
    box is large enough that survey edges are a significant contaminant to your
    analysis.  On <1 Mpc scales you are OK because Ben makes a 1 Mpc edge cut
    before running the cluster finder.  This could possibly affect the inferred
    ellipticity because the correction factor is greatly overestimated at large
    radius (a constant background model is just wrong). This is alleviated
    somewhat by the rotations applied to align the clusters.

    Is the correction in equation 17 calculated for every pixel in the map?  If
    not this could seriously alter your measured signal as the correction
    factor will be different along the major axis by a factor related to the
    axis ratio.  I think from paragraph 2 that you do do this for each pixel.


    A simpler analysis that would not require such a large masking of the
    central region would be examining quadrants.  You could calculate the mean
    correction factor in each quadrant with higher S/N and then take the ratio
    of shears in quadrants.  Another alternative would be to use a model for
    the correction factor that would be constrained to vary smoothly over
    the region of interest.  We know it is roughly a power law.

4

    I don't understand this f vs n0 plot.  The full correlation function
    analysis is the proper approach.  What is the purpose of this figure?

    Given the problems I have raised above the error on the ellipticity
    quoted here is too small.

    What is LM?  I did not find a definition

    What is light matter?  Do you mean the galaxy counts?  Is this LM?

    You refer to Table 3.3 that doesn't exist.  I'm guessing you meant
    table 1



    Figure 3b  Why are there so few points in the curve?  There is information
    to be obtained from a finer grid.

    P3
    When you say "probability" do you mean "likelihood"?

    P4 When you say "limit" do you mean "contraint" or best-fit or range
    of allowed values?

    P5 Again I ask if each pixel gets it's own correction:  If you are applying
    a single *radial* correction, you will underestimate the correction on the
    major axis and overestimate on the minor axis and this will make it look
    more round

4.1

    Why do you say the higher z clusters are more likely to be higher mass? The
    catalog is roughly volume limited, which means the samples are essentially
    the same at all redshifts.

    Do the corrections for member-background contamination differ for lenses at
    different redshift, and at what level?



