General
-------

    - You often leave out "the" and other small words.  E.g.

        "This may be a concern when correlated PSF noise level is high."
                                    ^ missing "the"

    - You sometimes just write "eigens", but instead you should expand this to
      "eigen values" or "eigen images" or "eigen vectors".

    - You often say "less" when you should say "fewer".
    - You often say "shows PCA is doing an excellent job" but you have not
      quantified this.  You must quantify these things using a hypothesis and
      some statistic, or you should remove the sentence.
    
Abstract
--------

    You should spell out PSF and PCA the first time.

    "spatially correlated PSF noise *can* be mistaken as signal"

    "Grid based PSF interpolation faces..."  A grid can't face anything :) You
    should probably say, "One challenge presented by grid based PSF
    interpolation is the possibility of empty cells", or something like that.
        
        Also, you should explain that you are using stars to determine the PSF,
        so that the missing data means there are no stars in the cell.

    "Expectation ..."  -> "We used Expectation Maximization to deal with this
    missing data"

    "We find that the fit residual"  Is this residual higher meaning there is
    higher variance only or is it systematic?
    
    "Finally..." I think you are addressing the linear interpolation between
    cells. You should probably expand on this.

1. Introduction
---------------

    p1

        You should again re-introduce the PSF acronym (and others).

        Another systematic is the correction for the PSF.  Even if the PSF is
        known perfectly, the current algorithms don't correct it perfectly.

        "In this work ..." -> "In this work we concentrate on PSF
        interpolation".

    p2

        I think you can be more general here, no need to limit this to future
        surveys.  Your method is applicable to SDSS too.

    p3

        "approaches to interpolating" -> "approaches to PSF interpolation"

        Use a colon: "interpolation: underlying physics...."

        "Underlying physics modeling" I think you can just say "physical
        modeling"

        "..method that uses".  Methods can't use anything, only people can :)
        You can say: "In the first approach, we fit models to stellar images
        that represent the physical state of the telescope, optics, and
        atmosphere at the time of observation, such as defocus and seeing."

        "This has been show..."  -> "This method has been shown to accurately
        recover the true PSF for simulations of space-based missions where only
        a few well understood parameters are sufficient to model the PSF"

        " apply a similar strategy" 
                ^

        "encouraging, partially"
                    ^

        "difficulty..." -> perhaps "difficulty of modeling ground based
        systems, for which the PSF is less stable" ?

        "including" -> "include"

        Spell out PCA the first time in the main text.

    p4

        I think it would be better to begin by explaining what PCA is in
        general, then moving to how it applies to this particular problem.

        "individual images does"
                         ^

        "help" -> I think this can be tied back into your explanation of what
        PCA is, also "help" is not the best word, and images cannot get help.

        "reconstructed polynomial coefficients from PCA to file" this is
        somewhat confusing.  I think using the eigen vector terminology is more
        clean.

        Not sure an ordered list is required to describe Jarvis & Jain.

    p5

        First two sentences can be compressed.  "The polynomial fitting method
        in Jarvis & Jain is simple but may not be an efficient representation
        of the underlying spatial patterns".

        "concern"  To whom is this a concern?  If it is your concern you should
        state that.

        "We eliminate" -> "In this work, we take a different approach that does
        not suffer these limitations.  We take as our data vector the PSF
        values in a grid of cells on the focal plane, and reconstruct the eigen
        ``images'' of this grid using PCA.  This method can handle arbitrarily
        complicated PSF patterns, limited only by the spatial frequency set by
        the cell size."
        
2. Algorithms
-------------

    p1

        "grid cells" -> "cells"

        "neither" -> "not"

        "pixels nor uniform" -> "pixels, nor must they be uniform in size"

        "average PSFs of the stars" -> "average PSF from stars in that cell"

        "provide a PSF measurement"
                 ^
        
        "vector will be missing" -> need to say what missing means, maybe
        "vector are said to be ``missing''; i.e. there is no information in
        that cell".

        "Our goal is to find" -> "As part of our algorithm, we find"

        "The reason..." I think this sentence belongs earlier in the paragraph.

    p2
    
        "We only apply SVD..." -> "EM PCA is designed to work with missing
        data, while the standard SVD approach requires a complete data set.
        Since we will always have missing data in a real world scenario, we
        only use SVD as a reference implementation."

        ref numerical recipes.  Also, "We follow the convention from 
        Numerical Recipes"

        "i.e." -> "e.g."

    p5

        "EM PCA is an algorithm to iteratively factorize a matrix." 

        "EM PCA tries to find" -> "EM PCA is designed to find"

        "does not require orthoginality on W" -> "does not require that
        W be orthogonal"

        "vectors need to be specified " -> "vectors to be calculated, can
        be specified ahead of time."

        "In fact, only calculating.." -> "In real world scenarios where
        relatively few k are needed, this results in a dramatic reduction in
        dimensionality. As a result EM PCA is generally much faster than SVD
        for PCA determination."

    p6

        "..., EM PCA starts"  PCA is a concept, it can't start anything.
        perhaps "When using EM PCA in the case of no missing data, we start by
        making"

        "updating of X and W iterate" -> "we iteratively update X and W"

        "stopping" -> "convergence"?

        "tiny" is relative.  Do you actually test the difference, or the
        *relative* difference?  (a2-a1)/a1 ?

    p7

        "one generalize" -> "we generalize the steps".  You should choose
        either "one" or "we", but you should not mix them.

        "and y* is treated as uknown otherwis" -> "otherwise y* is treated as
        unknown"

        "After finding the solution, we set the corresponding"
                                     ^^

    p8

       "We would like to point out"  Is this not shown in Roweis' paper?

    p9

        "The eigens are not unique either." -> "Furthermore, the eigen vectors
        are not unique."


        "Despite the non-orthogonaity... " I don't understand this sentence!

        "equally as well" -> "equally good".  Can you justify that?

    p10

        "The PCA code is written"
             ^^^

        "..is to fill in the missing components of the data" -> "..is to fil
        the missing components in the data vectors"

        "The reason.." -> "The reason is that QR factorization is performed
        during each iteration for all vectors with missing components."

        "24 and 240 CPU hours" This is only meaningful if you know the details
        of the data.

        "The time spent for each iteration scales linearly with the number of
                      ^                    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
        exposures"

    p11

        "The dominant .. " -> "The memory consumption is dominated by storage
        of the data matrix"

            
        "cells we use is on the order of 1000" -> "We use on the order of 1000
        grid cells, and only e1 and e2 are used to describe the PSF"

        "So one data " -> "So one data vector with double precision requires
        only 16K bytes, and 10^4 exposures require only 160M of memory.

        "In such a case..." These sentences need to be rewritten.


* I'm going to limit my comments about wording and English from here on.
  I'll help more with that later.


3. Simulated Data
             ^ capitalize

4. No Missing Data
------------------

Maybe say "PCA with No Missing Data"?

4.1
---

I'm not sure it is not useful to show any eigen images.  Let's discuss.

4.2
---

    p3 
        we can check your theory by looking at the distribution of std.


    Reason for correlated noise..?

4.3
---

    You should explain *before* equation 12 that this is the auto-correlation.

5
--

    You say "Such a systematic offset" but that word doesn't fit here.   It is
    probably enough to say "In our simulation, this increase in noise is
    expected because, in removing data, we lower the density of PSF estimators"

    Also, you might be able to estimate this increase and see if it is
    consistent.

5.1
---

    Remember, there is a strong convention that "significant" means > 3-sigma,
    so be careful to only say that if you can show it is 3 sigma or more.

    p3 "mean of the non-missing data"  mean of what quantity? less->fewer


    Can you be sure of the over-fitting argument?

    p4 "large decrease for the missing data" decrease with what variable?

Figure 9

    What do you think about using fractions instead of percentage, and use "f"
    as the symbol?

    I think the argument is basically that there is an "effective" stellar
    density per exposure and the variance should go as sqrt of that, right?

6
-

    "and the ellipticities smaller" -> "and the measured galaxy ellipticities
    smaller"

    As we discussed, in the absence of distortions the seeing and other effects
    commute.  Also, with spatially invariant PSF it doesn't matter.

7
-

When you earlier introduce the simulation, you should mention that you will
explore randomly positioned stars in this section.


8% seems large to me!


I think you may need some more statistical analysis of this, the numbers seem
odd.  Can you predict them?

8 Conclusions

"There are three main" should start a new paragraph.

p3 

    What about interpolation between the grid cells required for correcting
    galaxies?

p4

    How can one check the correlated noise part, if the stars are also used for
    getting the interpolation?  Seems like one would need a validation split.

My acknowledgment is usually

    ES is supported by DOE grant DE-AC02-98CH10886
